This one particular place in Fort Worth, one of the brothers had a fairly good looking daughter.
She was a little bit younger.
But I had a date with her.
I imagine most all the time they had dances after the football game.
And I believe that I took her to a dance.
Let's see.
Now, did you by chance meet Betty during any of these years?
No.
Okay, so that... I did not meet Betty until I had graduated and was working in Alvin just before I was going to Oklahoma University.
Okay, so that... Let's see, we talked about where women stayed.
Let's see.
Describe for me North Gate, South Gate.
What was just off campus?
I'd say probably you only had two gates.
North Gate, that was going toward Bryan.
And then Main Gate, do you recall it then?
That was West Gate.
That was if you were going to go on the train or go across tracks to the most kind of the activity.
I've seen that one time.
One time I know that that highway was finished.
It's number six now.
Was that during your time?
I believe so, because I think I remember hitchhiking.
Right.
At Northgate, what businesses and places of entertainment were at the Northgate?
Oh, there weren't too many there compared to now.
They had a bookstore.
and something like a drug store, maybe.
Was Lupo yet in business?
I think that he developed all that later, I believe.
Let's see, did you have a car?
No.
A friend had a car in my senior year.
Did a buddy ever lend his car to another?
No.
I borrowed a car when we, say, went to Houston on a core trip.
I had a brother-in-law and a sister, and they had a car, and they loaned it to me.
Where did the faculty live?
As far as I know, most of them lived just to the east of the highway, in the older part of College Station.
Were there some faculty residences still on campus?
Yes.
Oh, definitely, yes.
Yeah, I remember this fellow that was head of the veterinary department, lived there.
What was his name, the doctor?
The most famous one.
Started with the veterinary school.
Yeah, there were several of them.
Were you all ever invited into their homes?
Well, I was invited into Harold Vance's home because
This girl from Houston stayed there, and that's the only time.
This was a date?
A date from Houston, they stayed with me.
Alright, now, did you pay them rent or anything?
No.
They did that?
They would.
They'd be insulted if you asked a thing.
I mean, they didn't charge, as far as I know, when they stayed in the dorms.
Now, you got there in 30,
Fall of 34.
And left in the spring of 38.
Is that right?
No.
Let's see.
I should have graduated in the fall of 38.
38.
Okay.
And then I went to the first term of summer school.
All right.
What national or international events do you remember during that time?
The most...
What's surprising, I guess, was Larson Wells' deal.
Ooh, describe that.
Well, I was living off campus, and that happened, apparently, in the first part of 39, if I'm not mistaken.
And it's amazing.
Someone had their radio on.
This house we're staying in,
It was just all students.
There were no godmother or anything else.
There was only about four, maybe six boys at the most probably staying there.
And someone had a radio on, and they all got together and wondered what's going to happen.
Actually, a friend of mine had a car.
And we said the best thing we better do is get down to Alabama and see what's going on.
And I said what we should do is bring our folks there because we had a little bit of Army training.
Isn't that something?
And then it all blew up when it stopped.
But that's really something.
And you heard the broadcast?
Oh yes, definitely.
And actually we kind of talked about going and I actually thought that the
The best thing we were really surprised was to try to bring our folks to the college station.
Did you all stop what you were doing to listen?
Well, it was at night, and sure we stopped.
We were starting to leave.
Any other national or worldwide events?
Were there any events in Europe that got your attention?
Well, you know, Hitler invaded the sea.
He invaded Poland after I graduated.
That's September 139.
Yes, that's correct.
One of my best friends was from Poland.
I got acquainted with him.
He had come from Poland even though he was a naturalized citizen.
I was born in Chicago.
He was planning to go back over there.
And I had considered the possibility of maybe going over there to visit him or something.
But he went on over and I was going to come later.
But he got caught in that deal.
But he got out, luckily, and joined the Army here and did real work.
When you were having drill instruction and training and all in the Corps, did you and your...
fellow students think that it might lead you all into wartime?
No, I have no idea and I really felt that I wasn't prepared to be an officer really.
Of course they gave all of them training and the best training you got, I guess, was at the camp between junior and senior year.
We went to Fort Lowe.
you have more responsibility really to lead troops even though we didn't take it very seriously.
We didn't think that when we were drilling the freshman or something like that or marching around or even target.
See, we never did have rifles until we went to camps, summer camps.
All right, you went to summer camp at Logan?
Fort Logan.
And where else?
That's all.
Oh, that was the... Well, see, I did go to Bullis, Camp Bullis one time.
Oh.
That's after.
And when were you commissioned?
If I'm not mistaken, I was 20, and I didn't get the commission until after.
After you?
When I got 21, I believe.
Okay.
Let's see.
Then after I got the degree.
Back to the radio, did you all listen to any Roosevelt speeches on the radio?
I didn't.
Did you all pay much attention to state or national politics?
Yes, I think so.
Let's see.
I went to W. Leo Daniels' inauguration here in Austin.
Because?
Just for fun or were you?
I was going with a girl and her parents wanted to go, so they came by and picked me up and came over here.
And they were selling these clay biscuits, you know, please pass the biscuits.
Anyhow, and then the fella drove to San Antonio.
They wanted to go there.
And then they drove me back to Valley Station.
And then they took off for parallel.
So you came to Austin for his first inauguration?
Yes.
Politics in Texas has always been interesting.
Student indulgences, did many students use tobacco then?
Well, actually, in the group I was in, I don't think too many of them smoked.
And none of them chewed tobacco.
And none of them used snuff.
Of the students who did smoke, what was the most popular brands?
I never did smoke.
Cigars, no.
There were some cigar smokers?
Actually, at some of the banquets,
At the Cebiza Hall, they actually passed out the cigars.
Did you ever hear of that?
Yeah, and that's when I would smoke a cigar.
All right, what were the, and let's see, you said beer was pretty rare.
No, no.
It came into being in 1936, I believe.
All right, what were the favorite varieties of beer?
Some of the Texas breweries, I believe.
Do you remember them?
Well, let's see.
There was a Grand Prize and... Southern Select.
Well, it was Shiner Beer.
Shiner.
Yeah, I had a friend from... Pearl.
San Antonio, yeah.
Pearl.
Jack's, Falstaff.
So they were there.
You do know who owned Grand Prize?
No.
Howard Hughes.
His father had created it.
Well, that's good.
Let's see.
Whiskey Bridge wasn't yet a reality.
Didn't drive across, going to Snook and see, right when I got there in the 50s, that's where it was the nearest place to get whiskey.
Was that little place at the filling station too?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I've been there.
Let's see, we talked about a court trip and football, final review, commencement.
Did you all hold silver taps in those days?
Oh, yes.
Describe it, please.
Well, they did it on a kind of an individual deal.
And it wasn't as frequent, of course, now.
I mean, as now.
And ordinarily, they'd announce it, say, the day or the day before.
And everybody would go down at the...
The buglers were up on top of the old administration.
And what time of day or night was it?
It was midnight.
And how did y'all conduct yourselves?
We went there, got it over and went back.
But did you snicker and goof off?
No.
It was taken seriously?
Yes.
What did y'all do when it was over?
Went back to go to bed.
Let's see, muster.
Was muster held in those days?
And if so, where?
I don't remember the first muster.
I don't believe that they had one on the campus.
I really don't remember when they started.
OK, so the key truth.
What were then the key traditional Aggie events in a year?
When you were getting ready to leave as a student, what kind of world did you think you were going to be entering?
I didn't have any idea.
No, I was real lucky.
I was able to work in the oil fields two summers before I graduated.
And I had a relative that was a geologist, so he helped me a whole lot.
And so I was very fortunate in having, I didn't try to get a job until I finished Oklahoma University.
And the reason I went to Oklahoma is that they had a better petroleum geology school, even though I got a degree in petroleum geology from Oklahoma, because it would have been more difficult to get a geology degree, but I went there just for the geology.
All right, now you got an undergraduate degree at A&M.
Yes, a petroleum engineering.
And then?
Master's degree.
Master's.
And tell me about getting your first job.
Well, I was real lucky.
Let's see.
At OU, I was interviewed by Exxon, the engineer, chief engineer of Exxon.
And, let's see, I had the Stanley Oil and Gas Company then worked.
drilling near Alvin.
And my dad do the lawyer.
We had some land in the field.
He worked with the lawyer and then somehow he knew the head chief engineer.
But the fellow interviewed me for Exxon and I chose
Actually, I went over to the Tulsa Oil Show and my cousin, husband, who's a geologist, wrote a letter of recommendation to Shell Oil, one of his friends at the Tulsa Shell office.
And they offered me a job.
And I had a job from, it was Hummel Oil and Gas.
And I had to choose between the two and one of them off at 125 and one at 135.
So you knew which one I took.
As you began that job, how well prepared did you think you were for the real world?
Actually, I was luckier than most kids out of college because I'd worked in the oil field and I was able to
communicate or get along with the people in the field.
See, I was a trainee for two years.
They let you do work in different areas.
I started out in a core lab and went to a persistent interpretation of electric logs in Louisiana for real good fellows, developed their own interpretation of electric logs.
Worked at a gas plant.
Worked on a small work over unit.
I never did.
Worked mostly in offices under the district engineer.
I guess I was a trainee at Hobbs.
And it was about two years about up.
And the guy went into the Navy.
I was under him.
So I got, I took his work on.
And I had a deferment at that time.
Because I was buried and hadn't found the board.
All right, one of the items I see I missed, was there an Aggie bonfire in those days?
Yes.
Where was it held?
I think the same place.
I don't think it ever remembers any different than the field where it is now, if I don't understand.
No, they're having it now.
Oh, yeah, they've changed it.
And see, in my memory, it's been on the drill field, Duncan, and then northeast of the system building.
Well, I think it was on, it wasn't on, what do you call it, the drill field?
That drill field in front of the MSC.
I don't believe it was ever there.
Okay.
They used to just bring trash.
That's why I was going to... What was in it and where did y'all get it?
Well, they were just organized then as now.
And I suppose if you ran on something that wasn't tied down, you'd bring it.
Was there any particular structure that was put on top?
Yep.
We always tried to find an outhouse.
I never was privileged to take part of that.
I was always afraid they'd have some money in it.
Okay, now we're getting to the important two questions left.
As you look back on your life, what has it meant to you that you went to Texas A&M?
Well, I think there's a lot of other things that influence you about as much.
It was, I'd say, basically, I'd say honesty and hard work is about as important as anything.
But there's other factors like your family or friends, you know, or people that you even know after you get out.
I've been fortunate to know, I'd say, three or four what I'd call genius people.
I was lucky enough to work with it and own it.
And that's all that are tied together.
But I was always praised or had an advantage by being for me.
Okay, so what feelings do you have in your heart now for Texas A&M?
I'm just trying to keep financing some of their stuff.
And why do you have that feeling?
Well, it's been very enjoyable.
And I've enjoyed working with the Department of Students Association and the association with the presidents.
And I think that we were in a fortunate time when things went from not much to greatness.
So it's been very interesting.
It's been pretty much a hobby or whatever.
Are you repaying part of the debt of gratitude?
Sure.
Well, it's just like anything that if you feel like you'd like to try to help it develop and you feel a warmth to it, so that's
All of the work that he did in the association was just trying to help whatever the president was trying to do.
And most of the time, that worked out real well.